Name:Tomato-garlic soup

Ingredients: 

8 cups undrained canned tomatoes, pureed
Olive oil
2 cloves garlic
1 tsp paprika
dollop red wine/sherry
croutons or a grilled cheese sandwich
chopped fresh parsley

Instructions:
Sautee garlic. Add paprika. Add everything. Simmer briefly.

Name: HAMPEASNOODLES

Ingredients:

3 cloves garlic
2 medium onions (I like sweet onions)
1/4 cup packed fresh basil leaves or 2 tsp dried (can be less, even half as much)
1/4 cup parsley, (again, less is okay)
3 medium carrots
1/2 pound smoked ham, chopped into squares (you can buy the ham steaks.  Check to see if it's precooked or uncooked.  If the latter, follow instructions for cooking BEFORE you assemble the dish)
3/4 pound noodles (we use farfalle)
oil and/or butter for cooking
2 tsp oregano (i use less, maybe half)
1 and 1/2 cup frozen peas

Instructions:
Heat water for the pasta.

Mince the garlic, chop the onions coarsely, and mince the parsley, basil, and oregano.  Set them all aside.
Peel the carrots and cut them into thin slices.  (I like to cut them on an angle, I think they taste better that way)
PUt the pasta on to cook.
Heat a pan, heat some butter, saute the garlic and onions in the butter until the onion begins to brown.  Add a little more butter and a little olive oil along with the carrots and herbs.  Cook until the carrots are almost tender.
Add in the peas and cook them until the peas are heated through.  
Add the ham and noodles.
Drain the pasta and add it to the rest.
voila

---------
Name: Standard stir-fry sauce
Ingredients:
1/2 cup low sodium soy sauce
1/2 cup water
1 tablespoon Mirin (chinese rice wine, golden color liquid in a small bottle)
1 teaspoon ground ginger
2 teaspoons sesame oil

Instructions:
Put on some rice and chop whatever vegetables you want in the stir fry.  Heat some oil pretty hot and fry them in reverse order by how long they take to cook.  Carrots, broccoli, string beans take about the same amount of time (?10 minutes? I don't watch the clock, I watch the veggies), then zucchini, onions, mushrooms, and cabbage/bok choy take a little less time.  Some people like to fry up the mushrooms first and then take them out and add them in at the end.  That's more trouble.  ADd the sauce and pre-cooked meat (chicken or pork) or tofu or nuts at the very end.  If you have uncooked meat to put in, saute that first of all, then remove and add in at the very end.  

------------
Name: French onion soup 

Ingredients:
5 cups thinly sliced onions (don't use red ones, it says)
6 tablespoons butter (hmm, you can substitute some olive oil and I doubt you need 6 tb worth of any fat)
1 quart stock or water (can use chicken stock but store bought vegetable stock is not recommended)
1 tablespoon tamari soy sauce
1/2 teaspoon dry mustard
a dash of dry thyme
salt to taste
optional: 1/2 teaspoon honey

Instructions:
Mom: (Moosewood version.  I put down the full recipe here but I usually only make half of it. It is good leftover, also I think it could be frozen).  This is easy and takes almost no ingredients but it does take time.  Once the onions are browned, though, you can pretty much leave it for a bit.

Cook the onions, lightly salted, in a kettle.  Cook them until very brown but not burning.  Add mustard and thyme.  Add the other ingredients.  Cook slowly, covered, for at least 1/2 hour.  Taste before serving; depending on what kind of broth you use it may need some salt.  
CROUTONS: It's not too hard to make croutons.  Cut up bread into cubes, put in a bowl. In a cup mix 1/8 cup olive oil, 2-3 shakes of garlic powder, 1-2 shakes of garlic salt, and if wanted a pinch of powdered sage or thyme.  Whisk the ingredients together and drizzle over the bread cubes, covering as evenly as possible.  Toast for 15 minutes in a 325 degree oven.  

--------
Name: Pumpkin muffins
Ingredients:
2 cups all-purpose flour
2/3 cup packed brown sugar
1/3 cup granulated sugar
1 tablespoon baking powder
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon ground ginger
1/2 cup butter, (we recommend LAND O LAKES® Butter), melted
1/2 cup LIBBY'S® 100% Pure Pumpkin
2 large eggs, lightly beaten
1/3 cup buttermilk
 Instructions:

15-20 mins at 400


Name: Vegetable Fried Noodles
 

 (From Mark Bittman, The Food Matters Cook Book, page 208-9.  This tasted good and was fairly quick and easy to prepare.
Ingredients:

8 ounces noodles: he recommends rice, soba, or wheat.  I used Banh Pho noodles size M (flat rice noodles)
1 Tablespoon sesame oil
2 tablespoons vegetable oil (I used corn)
1 tablespoon minced garlic
1 tablespoon minced fresh ginger
1 cup chopped scallions
vegetables: whatever's in season, including carrots, bok choy, snow peas, green beans, zucchini
1/2 cup stock or water (I used water)
2 Tablespoons soy sauce
1 egg, beaten
Black pepper
1/2 cup chopped peanuts

Instructions:
 1.  Bring a large pot of water to boil and salt it.  Cook the noodles according to package instructions.  Drain the noodles and quickly rinse in cold running water.  Toss with the sesame oil to keep them from sticking.
2. Heat the vegetable oil to medium high.  Add garlic, ginger, and scallions.  Cook about 15 seconds.  Add the other vegetables and turn heat up; cook till the vegetables are tender.  (I started with the green beans and added in bok choy and snow peas and zucchini a bit later.) If the water gets low, add a little more.
3. Stir in the soy sauce and beaten egg; let the egg scramble.
4. Add the noodles, sprinkle with pepper if you want.
5. Mix it all up and serve, topped with peanuts or with the peanuts on the side.
This can be a non vegetarian meal if you add a little pork at Step 2, stir-frying after the garlic/ginger and before the veggies,  removing from the pan then returning it to pan with the noodles.

Name: Chile-lime chicken sauteed with zucchini

Ingredients:
From Andrea Chesman, Serving Up the Harvest, page 178-9.  Another pretty easy stove-top dish.

4 medium zucchini or yellow summer squash (I used one foot-long zucchini for two people with 1 leftover serving)
1 pound skinless boneless chicken breasts cut into thin strips
Juice of 1 large lime (3 tablespoons. I found that one small lime made almost that much juice. Or just use one of those little squeezer things)
2-4 teaspoons minced chipotle chile en adobo.  (We bought a jar of "Casa Fiesta Chiles en adobo sauce" and used 2 peppers' worth along  with some of the sauce it's packed in.  You have to take the pepper out and cut it up.  I'm sure there are other brands.  It was probably a "mild" on the spicy spectrum but it was noticeable)
4 tablespoons olive oil
2 ripe tomatoes
1 green or red bell pepper. (I used a big one)
4 scallions, chopped
chopped fresh cilantro (it calls for 1/4 cup but I just cut some from a plant and didn't keep track)
1 garlic clove, minced
flour or corn tortillas OR rice, cooked

Instructions:
1. Combine squash and maybe 1 teaspoon salt in a colander.  toss, set aside to drain for about a half hour.
2. While the squash drains, combine chicken, lime juice (it says in a nonreactive bowl), and chile sauce.  SEt aside to marinate.
3. Heat 2 tablespoons of oil, saute garlic and scallions for a short while, until scallions are not quite translucent.
4. ADd the chicken/marinade, saute until the chicken's no longer pink.  REMOVE CHICKEN AND JUICE, SET ASIDE
5. Blot the squash with a towel, add oil to skillet, stir fry the vegetables together.  I did the zucchini and pepper all together.
6. REturn the chicken to the skillet.  Add tomatoes and cilantro, turn the heat down if necessary, and let the tomatoes warm up.
7. SErve with tortillas kind of like a fajita, or over rice.  (we had it with rice, then Dad had some leftover in a pita.  It was good both ways.)

Name: Susie's Millet muffins
Ingredients:
1 stick of butter
2/3 cup brown sugar
3 eggs
1/2 cup of milk
1 1/4 teaspoons of vanilla
1 1/2 cups of flour
1/2 cup of cornmeal
1/4 teaspoons baking powder
3/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoons baking soda
1/2 cup of millet

instructions:
Preheat oven to 350°. Line or grease the muffin tins. Soften or melt the butter. Mix the butter, sugar, eggs, milk, and vanilla. Mix all dry ingredients except the millet. Add the dry to the wet ingredients. Mix the millet in last. Spoon it into the muffin cups. Bake for 25 min. or until the tester comes out with little crumbs. Makes 12 muffins.

name: Sara's pumpkin muffins
Ingredients:
 4 eggs
 1 2/3 cup of sugar
 1 cup of oil
 1 16 ounce can of pumpkin
 2 cups of flour
 2 teaspoons baking powder
 2 teaspoons cinnamon
 2 teaspoons salt
 1 teaspoon baking soda
 
 instructions:
Beat the eggs. Add sugar, oil, and pumpkin. Stir in the dry ingredients. Bake at 350° for 25 to 30 min.

Name: Cuban Black Beans and Rice
Ingredients:
1 tsp of cumin
1 tsp of coriander seeds
1 teaspoon paprika 
1 bit of parsley
5 T of olive oil
2 cloves of garlic
8oz tomato juice
3 15-oz cans of black beans
1 tomato
1 large onion
3 carrots
1 green bell pepper
1 bags of corn chips opt
5 bowls of bread opt
2 cups of white rice opt
1 cup brown rice opt
.25 blocks of cabot cheddar opt

Instructions:
Put the rice on.  Chop the pepper, onion, and carrots.  Heat olive oil in a large pan, then add garlic, onions, and spices all at once.  Add carrots and peppers once onions are translucent.  Simmer until peppers fade and carrots are tender.  Then add the tomato, tomato juice, beans, and parsley.  Simmer until everything is tender.  

Name: Black Eyed Pea Salad
Classes: lunch, snack, potluck
Ingredients:
Sliced cucumber
Shredded carrot
Chopped onion (?)
Chopped or shredded zucchini
Sliced tomato
Canned black-eyed peas with juice
1-2 tbsp canola oil
1 tbsp red wine vinegar
Dash of honey or sugar?
Four drops of Tabasco sauce

Name: Dad's barbecue
Ingredients:
1 bit onion
1 bit balsamic vinagre
1 bit Worcestershire sauce
1.5 tsp ground mustard
1.5 tsp brown sugar
pork opt
chicken opt
potatoes opt
broccoli opt
asparagus opt
2 zucchini opt
1 onion opt


Instructions:
Cut a slice of onion half an inch from the edge of the onion.  Dice it and put it in the pan where the meat will go. Pour in balsamic vinegar until it covers an area of about six square inches, and a bit less Worcestershire sauce than that. (Update: 3 or 4 parts vinegar to one part Worcestershire sauce.)  Put in about 1_ teaspoons of ground mustard and the same of brown sugar. Mix by moving the pan horizontally.  You might have to crush the gigantic lumps of brown sugar.  

Name: Satay
Ingredients:
2-3 lbs boneless pork   
3 tbsp soy sauce
2-3 cloves crushed garlic
1 tbsp sesame oil
0.5 tsp ground coriander
2 tsp honey, stirred in well

Instructions:
If you're cooking pork, cut it into about .75 inch slabs.  
If you're cooking chicken, remove most of the skin.  Grasp the meat with a hand and the skin with a paper towel.  Take off only what comes off easily.  Wash the chicken with cold water when you're finished, them let it drip before putting it in the marinade.
Empty the grill if there's a lot of ash in it.  Put 24-28 coals in the chimney.  Crumple three separate single newspaper pages and put them in the bottom of the chimney.  Set the chimney in the bottom of the grill, not It will take ca. 10 minutes to light.  Don't light it until the meat and the marinade are ready or almost ready.  Wash the ash/coal off of your hands.
Go light the coals if you haven't.  This may take more than one try, but only on wet days.  Set the meat in the marinade and flip it so that it is covered.  
When the coals are lit, pour them slowly into the grill.  They may fall out the bottom or the top, so keep the chimney's lowermost opening inside the grill at all times.
Spread the coals evenly; piles are bad.  
Spread the meat evenly; piles are bad.  
Flip every five to ten minutes; move the pieces around so that they are equally cooked.  
It takes about 30 minutes to finish, depending on the meat's thickness.  For satay, cook just past brown.


Name: Chocolate Brownies

Ingredients:
8 ounces semisweet baking squares
8 ounces 2 sticks of unsalted butter
4 eggs 
2 teaspoons vanilla
1 cup dark brown sugar
1 cup granulated sugar
1.25 cups all purpose flour
.5 teaspoon salt
.25 teaspoons baking powder

Preparation:
Let eggs go to room temperature. 
Melt chocolate and butter together over a double boiler, stirring frequently. Set aside and allow it to cool slightly. Preheat the oven to 325°.
In a large bowl, whisk together the eggs and the vanilla. Whisk in the sugars, followed by the cooled chocolate mixture, until fully incorporated.
In a separate poll, whisk together the remaining dry ingredients. Gently fold into the wet mixture.
Spread batter evenly into prepared and 5 918-.
Bake for 35 to 40 min. at 325°, rotating in the oven halfway through baking time.
cool slightly, or to room temperature and then cut into squares and serve.

Apple Crisp (9" pan)			
3 apples	
.5 cup brown sugar		
.5 cup white flour		
.5 cup oatmeal		        
.75 tsp nutmeg
.75 tsp cinnamon	
.25 stick margarine   		

Instructions:
Soften margarine in advance, then grease pan w/ margarine. To prepare apples, leave skins on, cut in half and remove core, chop up into cubes, put in pan.  Mix topping and pour over applesbake at 375 for 45 min.		50 min

Name: Apple Crisp (11" pan)
Ingredients:

4 apples
.75 cup brown sugar	
.75 cup white flour	
.75 cup oatmeal		        
1 tsp nutmeg		
1 tsp cinnamon		
.375 stick margarine   		

Instructions:
Soften margarine in advance, then grease pan w/ margarine. To prepare apples, leave skins on, cut in half and remove core, chop up into cubes, put in pan.  Mix topping and pour over applesbake at 375 for 45 min.		50 min

Name: Grandma's Ice Box Cookies

Ingredients:

.5 cup (8 tbsp) butter
1 cup brown sugar
1 egg
.5 tsp vanilla
5/4 cups flour
.5 tsp baking soda
.25 tsp salt
.5 cup chopped nuts

Instructions:

Slowly mix the sugar into the butter, then add egg and vanilla.  Mix in flour, salt, and baking powder.
After it's mixed, use your hands to mold the dough into two rolls.  Wrap it in waxed paper and refrigerate for several hours.  Slice and bake 10-12 minutes at 350 F.  Dough keeps well-a week or more.

Name: Fish Tacos
Ingredients:

1/4 cup plain yogurt
1/4 cup mayonnaise
1 lime, juiced
1 teaspoon minced capers
1/2 teaspoon dried oregano
1/2 teaspoon ground cumin
1/2 teaspoon dried dill weed
1 Little bit of spicy stuff
Fish fillets
1 (12 ounce) package corn tortillas
1/2 medium head cabbage, finely shredded
Carrot or zucchini

Instructions:

Cook the fish somehow.  If you're using zucchini/carrots, and cook them too.
To make white sauce: In a medium bowl, mix together yogurt and mayonnaise. Gradually stir in fresh lime juice until consistency is slightly runny. Season with jalapeno, capers, oregano, cumin, dill, and cayenne.
Assemble tacos and top with cabbage.  

Name: Dad's Spaghetti Sauce
Ingredients:
	5 average-sized garlic cloves
	4oz (half package) of mushrooms
	2 large onions
	5 16-oz cans of Italian stewed tomatoes (whirred in blender, I prefer, but could be chunky straight from the can instead)
	3 18-oz cans of tomato paste
	1 tablespoon each of oregano, sugar, black pepper.
	1 bay leaf



Instructions:
Cover bottom of pot with olive oil and brown on medium high heat (in this order):
	5 average-sized garlic cloves
	4oz (half package) of mushrooms
	2 large onions

Then add, all at once,
	5 16-oz cans of Italian stewed tomatos (whirred in blender, I prefer, but could be chunky straight from the can instead)
	3 18-oz cans of tomato paste
	1 tablespoon each of oregano, sugar, black pepper.
	1 bay leaf

stir. turn off heat. done.


Name: Egg Noodles with Cabbage and Paprika
Ingredients:
An onion
1/6 to 1/3 of a head of cabbage
A slice of butter-maybe 1.5 tbsp
Olive oil
0.5 lb egg noodles
3/8 cup vinegar (recipe calls for cider vinegar; we used white wine vinegar)
.75 tsp salt
1.5 tbsp paprika
1.5 tbsp brown sugar

Instructions:
Heat a large pot of water for the noodles.  Slice the cabbage & onion however small you want. 
Heat a large pan with enough olive oil to keep things from sticking.  Add the onion and stir-fry it until it starts to brown.
Put the noodles in the now-boiling water.  Add the cabbage to the pan with the butter and enough oil to speed up the cooking.  Fry until the cabbage starts to wilt.
Add the vinegar, sugar, paprika, and salt.  Drain the noodles and mix them in. If you prefer something slimier, add a little water or more of the sauce.  (We have already changed it to 1.5x the sauce from the original recipe.)


Name: Dad's Corn Bread

Ingredients:
.75 cup milk
3/8 cup corn oil
3/8 cup sugar
.75 cup flour 
.75 cup corn meal
1 tbsp baking powder
One egg

Instructions:

Pan must be at least 1.5 inches deep.
Don't preheat the oven.  Grease the pan-Dad uses margarine.  Crack the egg into a bowl.  Beat the egg.  Add the milk, corn oil, sugar, flour, corn meal, and baking powder.  Stir it all together.  Pour it in the pan.  Bake it about 20-25 minutes at 425.  It might crack and brown on top; then it might be done.  Toothpick test works.  

Name: NY Times Peanut Sauce

Ingredients:
2 tablespoons crunchy unsalted, unsweetened peanut butter
2 tablespoons roasted peanuts
1 to 2 tablespoons soy sauce (to taste)
1/4 cup rice vinegar or champagne vinegar
1 to 3 teaspoons hot red pepper oil 
1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper
1 tablespoon sesame oil
2 tablespoons canola oil
3 or 4 quarter-size slices fresh ginger, peeled
3 garlic cloves, skinned
1/4 cup vegetable or chicken stock, plus additional to taste

Name: Mushroom Casserole
Ingredients:
Celery
Mushrooms
Carrots?
Bowtie noodles
Cream of mushroom soup
Milk
Chicken or turkey.

Instructions:
Cook the noodles.  Fry the mushrooms (& carrots).  Chop the celery.  Put it all in a baking dish.  Add a can of mushroom soup and a can of milk (rinse the soup can).  Bake 30-45 minutes at 375 F.

Name: Mom's Manicotti

Ingredients:
3-4 small mushrooms

1-2 links of sweet Italian sausage
2.5 medium onions 
Three cans Italian stewed tomatoes
2-3 cans tomato paste
1 small can tomato sauce
Olive oil
Butter
1 lb Manicotti 
8oz Mozzarella (part skim milk, shredded)
16 oz Cottage Cheese (Low-fat, plain)
Parsley	
Basil

Instructions: 

Goes well with salad, fruit salad, perhaps steamed broccoli or carrots, or just more manicotti.

Put on a pot to boil for the noodles, water low enough not to splash. Slice all the things.  Fry the mushrooms and the sausage, chopping down the sausage as you go.  Add the onions when the sausage is pretty well done (not red at all).  Open cans and puree the tomato products, holding the tomato sauce in reserve.  When the onions are crispy but not harsh in taste, add the tomato mixture (mushrooms too?) and mix it in.  

In a separate bowl, mix the mozzarella, cottage cheese, basil, parsley.  When the noodles are cooked, drain them in the colander.  Cover the bottom of the baking pan with a layer of sauce.  Fill and place a layer of noodles.  Cover with sauce.   Repeat with a max of two layers.

Bake for 30-45 minutes at 375 degrees Fahrenheit.  

Name: Lentil Soup

Ingredients:
16 ounce bag of lentils
1 teaspoon salt

four chopped carrots
one or 2 stalks of celery
1 onion
2-4 cloves minced garlic

One can of stewed tomatoes
One can of tomato paste
2 tablespoons of lemon juice
2 tablespoons red wine 
2 tablespoons molasses or brown sugar
1 tablespoon of wine vinegar
thyme, oregano, or basil

Instructions:
Simmer the lentils and salt in a large pot with water 2" from the top.  Saute the chopped carrots, the celery, the onion, and the garlic. Add the rest and simmer for an hour.  Wait overnight for enhanced flavor.

Name: Holly's Peanut Butter Cookies
Ingredients:
1 cup of peanut butter
1 cup of sugar
1 egg

Instructions:
Bake for 10 minutes @ 350°. 

Name: Mom's Cashew Pesto
Ingredients:
.75 cups Parmesan
25 to 30 basil leaves
1/2 cup roasted cashews
6 tablespoons olive oil
3 tablespoons milk

Instructions:
blend it.

Name: Sichuan Fish-Fragrant Eggplant

Ingredients:
1 1/2 pounds Asian eggplant
2 tablespoons chicken stock, or substitute water
2 tablespoons chili bean paste
2 tablespoons soy sauce
2 tablespoons Chinese black vinegar, or substitute good-quality balsamic vinegar
1 tablespoon Chinese rice wine or dry sherry

1 teaspoon cornstarch
2 tablespoons peanut or vegetable oil
3 garlic cloves, minced
1 tablespoon minced ginger
1/2 teaspoon ground Sichuan pepper
Scallions, thinly sliced, for garnish
Slice each eggplant in half lengthwise, then slice each length into quarters. Cut each quarter in somewhat substantial, but still bite-sized, cubes (about 1 1/4-inch to 1 1/2-inch cubes).

Instructions:
Prepare the sauce: In a small bowl, mix together the chicken stock, chili bean paste, soy sauce, rice vinegar, rice wine, sugar, and cornstarch. Set aside.
Heat the oil in a wok over high heat until a bead of water sizzles and evaporates on contact. Add 1 tablespoon of the oil and swirl the pan to coat the base and sides. Add the eggplants and stir-fry until outsides become golden brown and insides begin to soften, about 2 to 3 minutes. Add the garlic, ginger, and Sichuan peppercorn and stir-fry until fragrant, about 30 seconds. Pour in the sauce mixture and mix well. Simmer for 3 to 4 minutes to allow the eggplant to full cook and the sauce to thicken enough to coat the back of a spoon.  Remove from the heat, plate, and sprinkle scallions on top.

Name: Chocolate Cake

Ingredients:
2 cups sugar
2 cups whole wheat flour (I am sure white would work but I've never actually made it that way)
2 tsp baking soda
1 tsp baking powder
2 eggs
1/2 cup oil (I use corn oil, I think that's best -- I would not use olive oil)
3/4 cup cocoa (plain, unsweetened)
dash salt
1 tsp vanilla
1 cup hot coffee
1 cup milk

Instructions:
The batter will be pretty thin.  Pour into a 9 X 13 inch pan and bake 25-35 minutes @ 350 degrees.  It is done when a) the cake starts to pull away from the sides of the pan; or 2) a toothpick poked into the cake comes out more or less clean -- it might have some crumbs on it, but no liquid batter coating the sides.  Your oven may be faster or slower than this.

The cake needs to cool down before you ice it, or the icing will melt away down into the cake.  So you have to try to time it so that your cake will have maybe an hour or more to cool.  (I once forgot about this and ended up with an icing cake.)

Icing
(it is easier to have an electric beater for this, but it wouldn't be impossible to do with an egg beater)
mix together confectioner's sugar and a little butter or margarine and a little milk.  I never do this by measure but I would estimate that I usually use 1/2 to 3/4 of a one-pound box of sugar, 1-2 tablespoons margarine, and 1-2 tablespoons milk.  Dribble the milk in, because it's a pain to have to add more sugar if you overshoot.

Name: Spaghetti with Clam Sauce
Ingredients: 
canned clams
spaghetti 
parmesan
garlic
olive oil 
parsley

Instructions:
Boil water; add noodles.   Peel 2-3 cloves of garlic.
Heat a little oil in a frying pan.  Crush the garlic into the oil and cook
till brown.  Add the contents of the clam can and about another half can of
water.  Add parsley, as much as you want or can spare.  Turn down while
noodles are getting done.  When noodles are done, drain them.  Serve noodles with sauce on top and add parmesan to taste.

Name: Pancakes
Ingredients:
For a normal amount (two people, ish), use:
Two medium eggs
1.5 cups milk
4 tablespoons corn oil
2 tablespoons sugar
2 tablespoons baking powder
A pinch of salt (optional)

>2 cups mixture of equal parts white and whole-wheat flour


Instructions:
Beat eggs.  Add milk, corn oil, sugar, (salt), and initial 2c of flour.  Put baking powder on top of the flour island, poking it to make sure it doesn’t clump.  Beat.  It will be too thin, so add flour in small increments until mixture reaches pourable gloppiness.  Add a tiny bit of milk if it goes too far towards solid.

Preheat a thick pan and melt some margarine on the landing pad.  It should melt fast, but without totally freaking out right away.  Pour, leaving room for expansion.  Temperature should be such that pancakes bubble and cave, but not so hot that the bottoms blacken.  After they sit for a few minute, you will be able to poke under them and see the bottoms.

Flip once the bottom side looks like a pancake.  Serve soon after that.  


Name: Fish Fragrant eggplant

Ingredients:
2 cups vegetable oil
1 1/2 pounds Asian eggplant
2 tablespoons chicken stock
2 tablespoons chili bean paste
2 tablespoons soy sauce
2 tablespoons Chinese black vinegar, or substitute good-quality balsamic vinegar
1 tablespoon Chinese rice wine or dry sherry
2 teaspoons sugar
1 tablespoon cornstarch
3 garlic cloves, minced
1 tablespoon minced ginger
1/2 teaspoon ground Sichuan pepper
Scallions, thinly sliced, for garnish

Instructions:
Slice each eggplant in half lengthwise, then slice each length into quarters. Cut each quarter in somewhat substantial, but still bite-sized, cubes (about 1 1/4-inch to 1 1/2-inch cubes).
Prepare the sauce: In a small bowl, mix together the chicken stock, chili bean paste, soy sauce, rice vinegar, rice wine, sugar, and cornstarch. Set aside.
Heat the oil in a wok over high heat until a bead of water sizzles and evaporates on contact. Add 1 tablespoon of the oil and swirl the pan to coat the base and sides. Add the eggplants and stir-fry until outsides become golden brown and insides begin to soften, about 2 to 3 minutes. Add the garlic, ginger, and Sichuan peppercorn and stir-fry until fragrant, about 30 seconds. Pour in the sauce mixture and mix well. Simmer for 3 to 4 minutes to allow the eggplant to full cook and the sauce to thicken enough to coat the back of a spoon.  Remove from the heat, plate, and sprinkle scallions on top.


Name: Raspberry Buckle 
 
Ingredients:
2 cups thawed frozen raspberries (rasp, blue)
2 cups flour
.25 cup sugar
2.5 tsp baking powder
.25 tsp salt
.5 cup shortening (corn oil)
1 egg
.5 cup milk


.5 cup flour
.5 tsp ground cinnamon
.5 cup sugar
.25 cup butter

Mix dry-not-sugar (baking powder, flour, salt). Mix sugar with oil with a beater. Fold in milk, dry-not-sugar mix, and egg while beating.

Make topping with a pastry cutter.  Layer and bake at 350 for 45-60 minutes or a good long while. Check with a toothpick.


Name: Banana Walnut bread

Ingredients
1 1/4 cups unbleached all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon fine salt
2 large eggs, at room temperature
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup unsalted butter, at room temperature, plus more for preparing the pan
1 cup sugar
3 very ripe bananas, peeled, and mashed with a fork (about 1 cup)
1/2 cup toasted walnut pieces

instructions
Sift the flour, baking soda, and salt into a medium bowl, set aside. Whisk the eggs and vanilla together in a liquid measuring cup with a spout, set aside. Lightly brush a 9 by 5 by 3-inch loaf pan with butter. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F.

In a standing mixer fitted with the paddle attachment or with an electric hand-held mixer, cream the butter and sugar until light and fluffy. Gradually pour the egg mixture into the butter while mixing until incorporated. Add the bananas (the mixture will appear to be curdled, so don't worry), and remove the bowl from the mixer.

With a rubber spatula, mix in the flour mixture until just incorporated. Fold in the nuts and transfer the batter to the prepared pan. Bake for 55 minutes or until a toothpick inserted into the center of the bread comes out clean. Cool the bread in the pan on a wire rack for 5 minutes. Turn the bread out of the pan and let cool completely on the rack. Wrap in plastic wrap. The banana bread is best if served the next day.


Name: Teriyaki Tilapia


Ingredients:
3 tilapia fillets

Corn oil
Soy sauce
Brown sugar
Fresh lemon
cup mirin
garlic clove

Instructions:
We used pre-packaged tilapia fillets.  These vary in weight, but probably average around .25 pound apiece.  Mix the ingredients together in a measuring cup and whisk to blend. Pour the sauce over the fillets.  If you have time, let the fillets marinate for a while, about .5 hour.  
Bake at 375 Fahrenheit for about 15-20 minutes.

Name: Zucchini Boats
Ingredients:
2 zucchini, about 6 or 7 inches long
1 tablespoon butter
1 large shallot, minced
2 cloves garlic, minced 
1 egg
2 tablespoons bread crumbs or 1 1/2 tablespoons flour (see TIPS) 
2 ounces feta, crumbled
Spanish paprika

Preheat oven to 350. Lightly grease an ovenproof dish. (See TIPS.)

Instructions:
PREP THE ZUCCHINI Trim the stem end just a bit for aesthetics but leave intact. Halve the zucchini lengthwise. With a small knife, cut around the zucchini, leaving a rim. Cross hatch the center, staying within the outer cut, then scoop out the center with a serrated grapefruit knife or grapefruit spoon. (A small spoon and knife also work, it's do-able but trickier.) Finely chop the centers. 

STUFFING In a small skillet, melt the butter until shimmery. Add the chopped zucchini centers, shallot and garlic and saute gently until soft. Let cool (see TIPS). 

In a small bowl, beat the egg lightly. Stir in the bread crumbs or flour, feta and cooked zucchini. Taste the stuffing, make sure it tastes good (see TIPS). 

FINISH & BAKE Stuff the zucchini boats. Sprinkle with paprika. Bake for 25 minutes to 40 minutes (my time, see TIPS), then brown slightly under the broiler.


Name: Red Bean Chili (feeds 4 with leftovers)


Ingredients:
Serve with rice.
46.5 ozs canned red kidney beans (may substitute some black beans)
1 cup tomato juice
5/4 cup bean juice
4 cloves garlic (crushed)
One large onion
3-4 carrots
3-4 celery sticks
1 green bell pepper
2 good tomatoes (omit in winter)
Juice of 1/2 lemon
1 tsp ground cumin
A sprinkle of basil
5/4 tsp chili powder
salt and pepper
1 small can tomato paste
3 tbsp dry red wine if you have it
<1/4 tsp cayenne
olive oil
Cheddar cheese & parsley to go on top? 

Instructions:

Don’t make the beans from scratch.  But if you’re making the beans from scratch, soak them under more than twice as much water for 3-4 hours, then cook them for another hour after that.  Watch the water level.
Cut veggies.  Fry the onions and garlic.  Add carrots, celery, and spices.  Add peppers.  Cook until tender.
Heat everything together for a while (15 minutes or longer).  Add some water if needed, and make sure stuff doesn’t stick to the bottom.

Name: West African Peanut Soup
Ingredients:
1 cup roasted and shelled peanuts
1/2 can coconut milk
2 tablespoons peanut or neutral oil, like grapeseed or corn
3 onions
1 tablespoon minced fresh ginger
1 tablespoon minced garlic
Pinch of cayenne
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
3 cups stock or water
3 sweet potatoes or yams (about 1 pound), peeled and cut into thick slices
1 can canned tomatoes
1/4 to 1/2 cup peanut butter, chunky or smooth.

1. Chop peanuts, or crush them with the side of a knife, or pulse them in a food processor to chop roughly.

2. Put oil in a deep skillet or medium saucepan over medium heat; a minute later, add onion, ginger and garlic and cook, stirring occasionally, until onion is soft, 3 to 5 minutes. Add chicken and continue cooking for another 3 or 4 minutes, until just coloring. Add 1/2 cup peanuts and the cayenne and sprinkle with salt and pepper.

3. Stir in the stock and the sweet potatoes, bring to a boil, and turn heat down to medium-low so the soup bubbles gently. Stir in tomatoes, then cook, stirring occasionally, until chicken is cooked through, about 10 minutes.

4. Stir in 1/4 cup peanut butter. Taste, adjust seasoning (you may want to add more peanut butter at this point) and serve, garnished with remaining peanuts.

Name: Red Curry

Ingredients:

1 eggplant
Cubed chicken breast
Zucchini
Tofu
Onions
Green beans or string beans
Garlic
Ginger root
Vegetable oil
Maesri red curry paste (4-5 tablespoons approximately)
Coconut milk (1 can)
Milk (if needed for more liquid)

Instructions:
1. Mince the garlic (as much garlic as you want, within reason), mince the ginger root (not too much ginger root), and cut all the vegetables, but not too small as they will release water when they are cooked. So, 1-inch sized pieces should work well.

2. Heat up large pot, and add approx. 2 tablespoons of vegetable oil. Add the garlic once the oil is warm, and cook it to make it brown.

3. Add the whole can of coconut milk at once, and then add the red curry paste. Mix thoroughly to make the mixture homogeneous, and of a brick orange color.

4. Boil the chicken in this stew first, because it will need to cook thoroughly. If you're not using chicken, you can put the vegetables and tofu in once the stew is boiling gently.

5. Once the chicken is cooked somewhat thoroughly, add the vegetables/tofu.

6. By this point, you should have added all of your ingredients. Let them cook for a while with the lid on. Check that the liquid level is high enough such that everything is covered with the sauce. Once the vegetables are tender but not soggy, the curry is done and can be served. Ballin'

Name: TOMATO BASED LEEK SOUP

Ingredients:
15.5 ounce can of cannellini beans (1)
16 oz can Italian style stewed tomatoes (1), pureed  (I think you can buy pureed tomatoes, or maybe at least diced if you don't want to bother with that extra step).  Italian style is important; plain stewed tomatoes are much less tasty.
2 leeks
1 sweet onion (big)
1 bay leaf
3 cups water or stock
thyme (sprinkle)
 
 Instructions:

Chop leeks, make little thin circles.  Only use the white to pale green part.  They may need to be cleaned between the layers.  Chop the onions semi fine..  Saute them in a good sized soup pot using butter and/or olive oil.  When the onions have begun to brown, add thyme, bay leaf, ground black pepper (a little).  Then add the pureed tomatoes.  Simmer covered 10 minutes.  Add beans.  Add water.  Simmer 10 more minutes.  You can add a little ham for flavor if you have it.

Name: NIBLET SOUP

Ingredients:
3 cloves garlic, chopped
1 onion, chopped (or 2 leeks if you have them)
3  cans Italian style stewed tomatoes, pureed (14.5 ounce cans)
2 cans chicken broth (regular size Campbells soup)
1 or 2 tablespoons balsamic vinegar
2 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley (if available)
6-8 leaves fresh basil (if available)
1 1/2 teaspoon dried thyme
1-2 cups rice already cooked.
1 or 2 cans corn niblets (11 ounce cans)
2 or 3 chicken breasts, raw, chopped up.
 
 Instructions:
Saute the onions  (or leeks) and garlic in your soup pot in some olive oil.  Add the tomatoes and broth.  Simmer 10 minutes.  Add the vinegar, parsley, basil, thyme, rice, and corn.  Heat up until the whole thing starts to bubble gently.  Add the raw chicken.  Reduce heat to just below bubbling.  Cook until the chicken is done, 15-20 minutes.  i like this method because the chicken doesn't get too done and tough.


Name: Jambalaya
1 green pepper, some celery, 2 medium onions
2 16oz. cans Italian stewed tomatos (Run them through the blender first)
1 can Campbell's chicken broth
7 cups water
2 cups rice
1 teaspoon thyme
1/2 teaspoon each of garlic powder, black pepper, cayenne pepper
bay leaf
        
 instructions:
 spread corn oil across the bottom of a large pot. Cook vegetables on medium heat.  then add  everything but the chicken, stirring together. put lid on pot and bring to boil on high heat until steam begins to emerge. turn down to low heat, simmering for 30 minutes. add chopped chicken pieces immediately before serving.
 
 Name: Pad Thai
 Ingredients:
1 pound Asian-style rice noodles
1/4 cup soy sauce
1/2 cup lime juice
2 tbsp peanut butter
2 tbsp hot sauce
¿little bit of sugar? 
1/2 block tofu, diced
2-3 eggs 
2 onions, diced
2-3 carrots (inauthentic but tasty)
4 cloves garlic, minced
2 tbsp sesame oil
1/2 cup bean sprouts
1/4 cup chopped or crushed peanuts 
4 green onions (scallions), sliced

Instructions.

Cook noodles according to package instructions.
Whisk together the soy sauce, peanut butter, lime juice, hot sauce and sugar.
In a large wok or skillet, sauté the tofu, onion, carrots, and garlic in sesame oil. Clear a spot on the bottom, scramble the eggs in it, and cook them for a minute or two.  Add the cooked noodles and the peanut butter and soy sauce mixture. Stir well, and allow sauce to thicken as it cooks for about 3 minutes. Top with peanuts, bean sprouts and green onions and serve hot. Or, you can cook the beans sprouts a while.

Name: kiffles

Ingredients:
1/2 lb butter (use real) (let stand awhile at room temp to soften a bit)
8 oz cream cheese
3 cups flour
Confectioners' sugar, about 1/2 cup, maybe less

(I think you can adjust proportions if you don't have 8 oz of cream cheese)

Instructions:
Mix butter and cream cheese until they're all mixed and a smooth texture. (Grandma's term is "cream").
Add flour and mix thoroughly.
*Pinch dough into balls about one inch in diameter. Chill a few hours.
Prepare rolling-out surface by sprinkling confectioners' sugar on it. (You may want to rub some on the rolling pin too.)

Roll out. Fill with jam or nut filling (see below). Fold into half moons and crimp edges together. Cover baking sheet w/ aluminum foil to foil overflow.  Bake @ 350 for 20-25 min or till golden.  Roll warm kiffles in conf. sugar.
Devour.

Nut filling:
Chopped walnuts
1/4 cup sugar (regular)
1 egg white

Beat egg white till foamy; add nuts and sugar

*I  recall that sometimes we chill the  dough before making the balls. It may save some time.

Name: Apple muffins
Ingredients:
1 apple
1/4 cup chopped walnuts or pecans
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 cup all-purpose flour
1 cup whole wheat pastry flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 cup canola oil
2 large eggs
1 cup natural applesauce
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3/4 cup brown sugar
3/4 cup low-fat buttermilk

instructions:
Pre-heat the oven to 400°F. Coat a 12 capacity muffin pan with cooking spray. In a small bowl, mix together 2 tablespoons of the brown sugar, the pecans and the cinnamon. In a medium bowl, whisk together the all purpose and whole wheat flour, baking soda, and salt. In a large bowl whisk the remaining 3/4 cup sugar and oil until combined. Add the eggs, one at a time, whisking well after each addition. Whisk in the applesauce and vanilla. Whisk in the flour mixture into batches, alternating with the buttermilk. Whisk just until combined. Gently stir in the apple chunks. Pour the batter into the prepared muffin pan and sprinkle with the pecan mixture. Tap the pan on the counter a few times to remove any air bubbles. Bake for 20 min. or until a wooden pick inserted in the center of one of the muffins comes out clean. Let them cool on a wire rack for 15 min. Then run a knife around the muffins to loosen them and unmold them. Cool them completely on the rack. But actually eat them hot.

Name: Grilled Salmon

Ingredients:
Salmon, horseradish, dijon, apricot jam
Instructions:
???

Name: Chicken Marsala

Ingredients:
2 skinless, boneless, chicken breasts
salt and freshly ground black pepper
1/2 cup all purpose flour, or breadcrumbs, or corn starch for gluten-free
up to 1/2 cup olive or vegetable oil
8 ounces container of mushroom, sliced and cleaned
2 tablespoons butter
1/2 cup sweet Marsala wine
1/4 cup chicken stock
1/4 cup sherry or dry white wine
Optional: 2 tablespoons heavy cream
Garnish with chopped parsley or oregano

Serve with noodles and asparagus

Instructions:
Split each chicken breast through the middle to make 2 pieces. Place plastic wrap over them and pound each one flat using a meat tenderizer/mallet until they are about a quarter inch thick. Season a good amount of salt and pepper on both sides of each piece. Place some flour on a plate and and dredge each piece of chicken in it.
Heat the oil over medium-high heat and when the oil is hot fry each piece of chicken for 3-4 minutes on each side until they are golden brown (this may require you to do this in 2 batches). Remove chicken and place them on your serving platter covering them with foil. carefully soak up any remaining oil with paper towels and discard.
Reduce the heat to medium and add butter and mushrooms. Saute mushrooms for 4-5 minutes making sure to season them with salt and pepper lightly. Add marsala wine, sherry, cream, and chicken stock allowing the liquid to reduce slightly – approx. 3 minutes. Pour mushrooms and sauce over chicken and serve. Enjoy!

Name: roasted carrot soup

Ingredients:
4 pounds of carrots
chicken broth
pistachios
coriander seeds
fennel
black pepper
plain yogurt

instructions:
roast the carrots until they're soft. Blend them with chicken broth. Garnish with the rest of the stuff and serve.
